Now as a bonus in this module,
I wanna have another look at this tsconfig
JSON file since I promised that,
and since it is important to at least
understand the basics about this file.
This is a file which you can add to any project
where you are using TypeScript.
So where you are compiling TypeScript code
to JavaScript code.
And then this will configure this compilation.
Now speaking of the compilation,
in this reactant TypeScript project,
the compiler is invoked automatically
when we start the development server
or when we built this project for production.
We are using a behind the scenes, build workflow setup
where this TypeScript compiler is integrated.
So here we configured this compiler
and in there you've got various options.
To understand all those options,
of course, check out those official docs or my course.
I do dive into greater detail there
and the official docs also explain all those options.
But you can also hover over an option
and you will get at least a short description here
and a link for the more detailed explanation,
so that's very helpful.
This links to the official docs.
And I'll also walk you through
the most important options here
and that starts with the target.
This in the end controls the target JavaScript version
to which your code will be transformed.
And in this case, that's es5 JavaScript,
which is quite an old version
which of course means that you should generally
have a broad browser support.
Though I will say, that depending on your project setup,
this target option might not be the only thing
that influences the output.
There also can be project setups
where your TypeScript code might be compiled to JavaScript,
and then you might have yet another compilation step.
For example, with other tools like Babel,
that take that output JavaScript code
and transform it even more.
So that's not necessarily the last step in line
but it often will be.
And that then simply controls
to which kind of JavaScript code
your TypeScript code is transformed.
Now here we see some default TypeScript libraries
that are included and that influences which kind of types
are known out of the box by our TypeScript code.
And these are some libraries which are actually
built into TypeScript,
so we don't need to install some extra packages here
but to unlock them in this project
we still need to list them here.
Now the DOM lib which is added here, for example,
ensures that some default DOM types
are understood by TypeScript.
And a great example here can be found
in the NewTodo.tsx file.
This HTMLInputElement type.
I mentioned that this is a built-in type
and it's actually such a built-in type that it's unlocked
because we have that DOM lib added here.
If I would remove DOM here from lib and save this,
then eventually here,
you see I'm getting an error down there.
That value does not exist on this type
because it actually doesn't fully understand this type then.
So that's an important lib which we should have here.
So in here I'll bring back DOM.
Now for those other settings, allowJs controls that
we could also include just .JS files,
so plain JavaScript files in our projects.
And import from such a plain JavaScript file
without causing an error,
if we wanna mix and match TypeScript and JavaScript files,
that's possible with this option.
Then we got a couple of options
which are not that important for us here.
Very important though, is the strict option.
This is set to true which means
that we have the strictest possible settings
for this project.
And that for example,
influences that we can't have implicitly any values
as we had it with parameters in the past.
If we had a parameter somewhere,
where we didn't set the type,
for example, if I remove the type here,
then we get those squiggly lines that it implicitly has
the any type and with strict mode, that's not allowed.
We have to explicitly set a type in places
where TypeScript is not able to infer it.
Strict true also unlocks a couple of other strict features,
but this non-implicit any type feature
is the most important one for us here.
Then we've got more options
which are not that important for us here.
The jsx option is interesting.
It basically controls that jsx code is supported
and which output code should be generated.
And in general, the default settings which we got here,
of course should work.
And you should only change them
if you know what you're doing.
But you can configure your TypeScripts behavior here,
and you now have a rough understanding
of what this file does.
Again you can always dive into the official docs
to learn more about those different settings.